Faster bulk import from Aurora MySQL (#35)
tidbcloud/dbaas-docs: migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import.md

---
title: Faster Bulk-data Import
summary: Learn how to use faster bulk-data import function on TiDB Cloud.
---

# Faster Bulk-data Import

## Learn how to create an Amazon S3 Bucket and prepare source data files

> This guide provides step instructions to migrate data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB Cloud with Dumpling backups or exported snapshot in S3.
> 
> Currently, there are two options to prepare data. Option 1 is to prepare source data files with [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview). You need to launch Dumpling on your EC2, and export the data to S3. The data you export is the current states of your source database. And this may affect the online service. Dumpling will lock the table when exporting. Option 2 is to prepare source data files with Amazon Aurora snapshots. This will not affect your online service. It may take a while when exporting data, because the export task on Amazon Aurora first restores and scales the database before exporting data to S3, you can refer to the docs [Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare data, you can select one from the following two options:

- [Option 1: Prepare source data files using Dumpling](#option-1-prepare-source-data-files-using-dumpling)

    You need to launch [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview) on your EC2, and export the data to Amazon S3. The data you export is the current latest data of your source database. This might affect the online service. Dumpling will lock the table when you export data.

- [Option 2: Prepare source data files using Amazon Aurora snapshots](#option-2-prepare-source-data-files-using-amazon-aurora-snapshots)

    This does affect your online service. It might take a while when you export data, because the export task on Amazon Aurora first restores and scales the database before exporting data to Amazon S3. For more details, see [Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html).
```

> ### Prechecks and Preparations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prechecks and preparations
```

> > **Notice**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
```

>

> > For the current stage, it’s not recommended to import the data more than 2TB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, it is not recommended to import more than 2 TB of data.
```

>

> > Before you start the migration, you need to do some prechecks and some preparations to ensure the migration smooth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before starting the migration, you need to do the following prechecks and preparations.
```

> #### Ensure the enough free space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Ensure enough free space
```

> Ensure that the free space of your TiDB cluster is larger than the size of your data. It’s recommended that you should reserve 600GB free space on each TiKV node. You can add more TiKV nodes to fulfill your demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the free space of your TiDB cluster is larger than the size of your data. It is recommended that you should reserve 600 GB free space on each TiKV node. You can add more TiKV nodes to fulfill your demand.
```

#### Check the database’s collation set settings

> Currently, TiDB only supports the `utf8_general_ci` and `utf8mb4_general_ci` collation. For your convenience, we need to verify the collation settings of the database. You could execute these commands in the MySQL terminal to Aurora.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, TiDB only supports the `utf8_general_ci` and `utf8mb4_general_ci` collation. To verify the collation settings of your database, execute the following command in the MySQL terminal connected to Aurora:
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
```

select * from ((select table_schema, table_name, column_name, collation_name from information_schema.columns where character_set_name is not null) union all (select table_schema, table_name, null, table_collation from information_schema.tables)) x where table_schema not in ('performance_schema', 'mysql', 'information_schema') and collation_name not in ('utf8_bin', 'utf8mb4_bin', 'ascii_bin', 'latin1_bin', 'binary', 'utf8_general_ci', 'utf8mb4_general_ci');
```

> The results show the following:

Reviewer: Are there other possible results? What does the following result mean to users? What if they encounter other results? 🤔
```suggestion
The result is as follows:
```

```output
Empty set (0.04 sec)
```

> If TiDB does not support your character set or collection, you could consider converting them to supported types. You could refer to [Character Set and Collation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/character-set-and-collation) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If TiDB does not support your character set or collation, consider converting them to supported types. For more details, see [Character Set and Collation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/character-set-and-collation).
```

> ### Option 1: Prepare source data files with Dumpling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 1: Prepare source data files using Dumpling
```

> You need to prepare an EC2 to run the data export task below. It's better to run on the same network with Aurora and S3 to avoid extra fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to prepare an EC2 to run the following data export task. It's better to run on the same network with Aurora and S3 to avoid extra fees.
```

> 1. Download Dumpling on EC2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download Dumpling on EC2.
```

>     Download the TiDB Toolkit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Download the TiDB Toolkit:
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
```

    mkdir tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64 && \
    wget -qO- https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz|tar -xzv -C tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64 --strip-components 1
    ```

> 2. Grant write privilege for writing S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Grant the write privilege for writing S3.
```

>     You can grant write privilege with access key and security key of AWS account in the environment. You should create a specific keypair for preparing data and revoke the access key immediately after you finished the preparation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can grant the write privilege using the access key and security key of your AWS account in the environment. Create a specific key pair for preparing data, and revoke the access key immediately after you finish the preparation.
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
```

    export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AccessKeyID
    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=SecretKey
    ```

    If you have assigned the IAM role to the EC2, you can skip configuring AK/SK, and run Dumpling on this EC2.

> 3. Backup the source database to S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Back up the source database to S3.
```

    Use Dumpling to export the data from Amazon Aurora. Based on your environment, replace the content in angle brackets (&lt;>), and then execute the following commands. If you want to use filter rules when exporting the data, you can refer to “[Learn how to set up filter rules](https://dev.tidbcloud.com/)” for more details.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
```

    export_username="<Aurora username>"
    export_password="<Aurora password>"
    export_endpoint="<the endpoint for Amazon Aurora MySQL>"
    # You will use the s3 url when you create importing task
    backup_dir="s3://<bucket name>/<backup dir>"
    s3_bucket_region="<bueckt_region>"

    ./tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64/bin/dumpling \
    -u "$export_username" \
    -p "$export_password" \
    -P 3306 \
    -h "$export_endpoint" \
    --filetype sql \
    --threads 8 \
    -o "$backup_dir" \
    --consistency="none" \
    --s3.region="$s3_bucket_region" \
    -r 200000 \
    -F 256MiB
    ```

> ### Option 2: Prepare source data files with Amazon Aurora snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 2: Prepare source data files using Amazon Aurora snapshots
```

#### Backup the schema of the database and restore on TiDB Cloud

To migrate data from Aurora, you need to back up the structure of the database.

1. Install mysql-client first

    ```bash
    yum install mysql -y
    ```

2. execute the command to backup the schema of the database.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
```

    export_username="<Aurora username>"
    export_endpoint="<Aurora endpoint>"
    export_database="<Database to export>"

    mysqldump -h ${export_endpoint} -u ${export_username} -p --ssl-mode=DISABLED -d${export_database} >db.sql
    ```

> 3. Import the structure of the database into the TiDB Cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Import the schema of the database into TiDB Cloud. 
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
```

    dest_database="<TiDB Cloud connect endpoint>"
    dest_username="<TiDB Cloud username>"
    dest_database="<Database to restore>"

    mysql -u ${dest_username} -h ${dest_database} -P 4000 -p -D${dest_database}<db.sql
    ```

#### Take a snapshot and export it to S3

>  1. From the Amazon RDS dashboard, choose **Snapshots**, click the button **Take snapshots** to create a manual snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. From the Amazon RDS dashboard, choose **Snapshots**, and click **Take snapshots** to create a manual snapshot.
```

>  2. Fill in the blank under **Snapshot Name**. Click **Take snapshot**. When you finished creating the snapshot, you will find the snapshot under the snapshot table.

Reviewer: - Please confirm the name "Take snapshot" because it's "Take snapshots" in the last step.
```suggestion
 2. Fill in the blank under **Snapshot Name**. Click **Take snapshot**. When you finish creating the snapshot, the snapshot shows under the snapshot table.
```

>  3. Choose the snapshot we took before, click **Actions**, under the drop-down box, click **Export to Amazon S3.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. Choose the snapshot you have taken, click **Actions**. In the drop-down box, click **Export to Amazon S3**.
```

>  4. Fill the blank under **Export identifier.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 4. Fill the blank under **Export identifier**.
```

>  5. Choose the amount of data to be exported. In this guide, we choose **All** You can also use partial to use identifiers to decide which part of the database need to export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 5. Choose the amount of data to be exported. In this guide, **All** is selected. You can also choose partial to use identifiers to decide which part of the database needs to be exported.
```

>  6. Choose the S3 bucket to store the snapshot. You can create a new bucket to store the data for security concerns. It’s recommended to use the bucket in the same region as your TiDB cluster. Downloading data across regions will incur additional network costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 6. Choose the S3 bucket to store the snapshot. You can create a new bucket to store the data for security concerns. It is recommended to use the bucket in the same region as your TiDB cluster. Downloading data across regions can cause additional network costs.
```

>  7. Choose the proper IAM role to grant write access to S3 bucket.
> 
>  8. After these operations, you can see the progress in the task table.
> 
>  9. From the table, you can record the destination bucket(e.g. s3://snapshot-bucket/snapshot-samples-1), fill it in the blank named **Bucket Name**.
> 
>  10. Currently, you need to edit the encryption key type of server-side encryption to Amazon S3 Key.

Reviewer: It seems that step 8 is not an operational step.

```suggestion
 7. Choose the proper IAM role to grant write access to S3 bucket. Now you can see the progress in the task table.

 8. From the task table, record the destination bucket (for example, s3://snapshot-bucket/snapshot-samples-1), fill it in the blank named **Bucket Name**.

 9. Modify the encryption key type of server-side encryption to Amazon S3 Key.
```

>      Choose the backup directory, and click the button **Actions**, in the pop list, click edit server-side encryption.

Reviewer: No need to keep words like "the button".
```suggestion
     Choose the backup directory, and click **Actions**. In the pop-up list, click to edit server-side encryption.
```

>      Choose **Amazon S3 key (SSE-S3)**
> 
>      It may take a while depending on your database type and size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Choose **Amazon S3 key (SSE-S3)**. It might take a while, depending on your database type and size.
```

> ## Learn how to create a Policy and Role for Cross-Account access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a policy and role for cross-account access
```

> For security concerns, you need to create a policy and role for cross-account access. There are two options to apply the bucket policy for cross-account access. You can do this on the AWS S3 management console or using awscli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security concerns, you need to create a policy and role for cross-account access. You can use either of the following two options to apply the bucket policy for cross-account access:

- [Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using AWS console](#apply-the-bucket-policy-for-cross-account-access-using-aws-console)
- [Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using awscli](#apply-the-bucket-policy-for-cross-account-access-using-awscli)
```

### Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using AWS console

> 1. Sign in to the AWS console and go to **S3 Manage Console**
> 2. Choose the bucket which stores the data to import.
> 3. On the top panel, select the **Permissions** card.
> 4. Click the button **Edit** to edit the **Bucket policy**.
> 5. Paste the policy data from the TiDB Cloud task dashboard, and apply the changes.  In this permission policy, we requested **GetObject** and **ListBucket** permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to the AWS console and go to **S3 Manage Console**.
2. Choose the bucket that stores the data to import.
3. On the top panel, select **Permissions**.
4. Click **Edit** to edit **Bucket policy**.
5. Paste the policy data from the TiDB Cloud task dashboard, and apply the changes. In this permission policy, **GetObject** and **ListBucket** permissions are required.
```

    ![Get bucket policy example](media/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import/guide-1.png)

> Once finished, you have created a policy and role for cross-account. You can go on the configuration on the migration dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once finished, you have created a policy and role for cross-account. You can continue with the configuration on the migration dashboard.
```

### Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using awscli

> 1. Install awscli and configure awscli according to your account info. You could refer to AWS cli configure quickstart to know how to get the information the awscli need. [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install awscli and configure awscli according to your account information. You can refer to [AWS cli configure quickstart](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) to see how to get the information needed by awscli.
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
```

    curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"
    unzip awscliv2.zip
    sudo ./aws/install
    # Configure the awscli with your account information
    aws configure
    ```

> 2. Export the data from the dashboard to the local file **policy.json**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Export the data from the dashboard to the local file `policy.json`.
```

> 3. Execute the commands from the task dashboard to apply the bucket policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Execute the command from the task dashboard to apply the bucket policy.
```

    ![Apply bucket policy with awscli](media/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import/guide-2.png)

> **Note:**
>

> > ### Q: Why do we need ListBucket permission?
> >
> > A: You have to grant ListBucket permission first before you have ListObject permission. You can refer to this [answer](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/s3-access-denied-listobjects-sync/) on AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To have the ListObject permission, you must get the ListBucket permission first, which is required by Amazon S3. For more details, see this [answer](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/s3-access-denied-listobjects-sync/) on AWS.
```

> ## Learn how to set up filter rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up filter rules
```

> You can refer to the documents about [Table Filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/table-filter#cli). For the current stage, it can only support one table filter rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Table Filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/table-filter#cli) document. Currently, TiDB Cloud only supports one table filter rule.
```

> ## Learn how to clean up incomplete data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Clean up incomplete data
```

---
title: Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB in Bulk
summary: Learn how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk.
---

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB in Bulk

> This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk.

Reviewer 2: All steps on the UI should be described.

    --filetype sql \
    --threads 8 \
    -o "$backup_dir" \
    --consistency="none" \
    --s3.region="$s3_bucket_region" \
    -r 200000 \
    -F 256MiB
    ```

### Option 2: Prepare source data files using Amazon Aurora snapshots

#### Back up the schema of the database and restore on TiDB Cloud

To migrate data from Aurora, you need to back up the schema of the database.

1. Install the MySQL client.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
    yum install mysql -y
    ```

2. Back up the schema of the database.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
    export_username="<Aurora username>"
    export_endpoint="<Aurora endpoint>"
    export_database="<Database to export>"

    mysqldump -h ${export_endpoint} -u ${export_username} -p --ssl-mode=DISABLED -d${export_database} >db.sql
    ```

3. Import the schema of the database into TiDB Cloud. 

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
    dest_database="<TiDB Cloud connect endpoint>"
    dest_username="<TiDB Cloud username>"
    dest_database="<Database to restore>"

    mysql -u ${dest_username} -h ${dest_database} -P 4000 -p -D${dest_database}<db.sql
    ```

#### Take a snapshot and export it to S3

> 

Reviewer: @SunRunAway Please see https://github.com/tidbcloud/dbaas-docs/pull/35#pullrequestreview-566013654~

 9. Modify the encryption key type of server-side encryption to Amazon S3 Key.

     Choose the backup directory, and click **Actions**. In the pop-up list, click to edit server-side encryption.

     Choose **Amazon S3 key (SSE-S3)**. It might take a while, depending on your database type and size.

## Learn how to create a Policy and Role for Cross-Account access

For security concerns, you need to create a policy and role for cross-account access. You can use either of the following two options to apply the bucket policy for cross-account access:

- [Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using AWS console](#apply-the-bucket-policy-for-cross-account-access-using-aws-console)
- [Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using awscli](#apply-the-bucket-policy-for-cross-account-access-using-awscli)

### Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using AWS console

1. Sign in to the AWS console and go to **S3 Manage Console**.
2. Choose the bucket that stores the data to import.
3. On the top panel, select **Permissions**.
4. Click **Edit** to edit **Bucket policy**.

> 5. Paste the policy data from the TiDB Cloud task dashboard, and apply the changes. In this permission policy, **GetObject** and **ListBucket** permissions are required.

Reviewer 2: > TiDB Cloud task dashboard

Where is it? Cloud you link to that page?

    ![Get bucket policy example](media/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import/guide-1.png)

Once finished, you have created a policy and role for cross-account. You can continue with the configuration on the migration dashboard.

> ### Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using awscli

Reviewer 2: We should state to user that using AWS console or using awscli is one or the other.

1. Install awscli and configure awscli according to your account information. You can refer to [AWS cli configure quickstart](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) to see how to get the information needed by awscli.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"
    unzip awscliv2.zip
    sudo ./aws/install
    # Configure the awscli with your account information
    aws configure
    ```

2. Export the data from the dashboard to the local file `policy.json`.

3. Execute the command from the task dashboard to apply the bucket policy.

>     ![Apply bucket policy with awscli](media/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import/guide-2.png)

Reviewer 2: Should it be a copyable command line, not an image?

---
title: Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB in Bulk
summary: Learn how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk.
---

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB in Bulk

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk using the import tools on TiDB Cloud dashboard. 

## Learn how to create a import task on TiDB Cloud dashboard

> Currently, you can only use the import tools on TiDB Cloud dashboard on the tier higher than `T1.tiny`. Generally, to import data, you need to do the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, you can only use the import tools on TiDB Cloud console on the tier higher than `T1.tiny`. Generally, to import data, you need to do the following steps:
```

    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=SecretKey
    ```

    If you have assigned the IAM role to the EC2, you can skip configuring AK/SK, and run Dumpling on this EC2.

3. Back up the source database to S3.

    Use Dumpling to export the data from Amazon Aurora. Based on your environment, replace the content in angle brackets (>), and then execute the following commands. If you want to use filter rules when exporting the data, refer to [Table Filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/table-filter#cli).

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    export_username="<Aurora username>"
    export_password="<Aurora password>"
    export_endpoint="<the endpoint for Amazon Aurora MySQL>"
    # You will use the s3 url when you create importing task
    backup_dir="s3://<bucket name>/<backup dir>"
    s3_bucket_region="<bueckt_region>"

    ./tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64/bin/dumpling \
    -u "$export_username" \
    -p "$export_password" \
    -P 3306 \
    -h "$export_endpoint" \
    --filetype sql \
    --threads 8 \
    -o "$backup_dir" \
    --consistency="none" \
    --s3.region="$s3_bucket_region" \
    -r 200000 \
    -F 256MiB
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: Select `TiDB Dumpling` Data Format on the Data Import Task page.

Author: Next stage this description is needed, now CSV is not supported. The command params here is acceptable.

 3. Choose the snapshot you have taken, click **Actions**. In the drop-down box, click **Export to Amazon S3**.

 4. Fill the blank under **Export identifier**.

 5. Choose the amount of data to be exported. In this guide, **All** is selected. You can also choose partial to use identifiers to decide which part of the database needs to be exported.

 6. Choose the S3 bucket to store the snapshot. You can create a new bucket to store the data for security concerns. It is recommended to use the bucket in the same region as your TiDB cluster. Downloading data across regions can cause additional network costs.

 7. Choose the proper IAM role to grant write access to S3 bucket. Now you can see the progress in the task table.

 8. From the task table, record the destination bucket (for example, s3://snapshot-bucket/snapshot-samples-1), fill it in the blank named **Bucket Name**.

 9. Modify the encryption key type of server-side encryption to Amazon S3 Key.

     Choose the backup directory, and click **Actions**. In the pop-up list, click to edit server-side encryption.

     Choose **Amazon S3 key (SSE-S3)**. It might take a while, depending on your database type and size.

> 

Reviewer 2: Select `Aurora Backup Snapshot` Data Format on the Data Import Task page.

---
title: Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB in Bulk
summary: Learn how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk.
---

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB in Bulk

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk using the import tools on TiDB Cloud dashboard. 

> ## Learn how to create a import task on TiDB Cloud dashboard

Reviewer: The word "dashboard" is a countable noun, so we need an article before. Please also check and update other similar places in this doc if necessary.
```suggestion
## Learn how to create an import task on the TiDB Cloud dashboard
```

> Currently, you can only use the import tools on TiDB Cloud console on the tier higher than `T1.tiny`. Generally, to import data, you need to do the following steps:

Reviewer: Does "TiDB Cloud console" mean the same as "TiDB Cloud dashboard"? If yes, could you please make the words consistent to avoid possible confusion?

> Currently, you can only use the import tools on TiDB Cloud console on the tier higher than `T1.tiny`. Generally, to import data, you need to do the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, you can only use the import tools on TiDB Cloud console on the tier higher than `T1.tiny`. To import data, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Click **Import** on the top of the cluster block on TiDB Cloud dashboard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the TiDB Cloud dashboard, click **Import** on the top of the cluster block. 
```

2. Prepare source data according to [Learn how to create an Amazon S3 Bucket and prepare source data files](#learn-how-to-create-an-amazon-s3-bucket-and-prepare-source-data-files). You can see the advantages and disadvantages of different **Data Format** in the preparing data part.

> 3. Fill the details about **Data Source Type**, **Bucket Name**, **Region**, and **Data Format** according to the specification of your source data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Fill in the **Data Source Type**, **Bucket Name**, **Region**, and **Data Format** fields according to the specification of your source data.
```

> 4. Fill the details about **Username** and **Password** of the **Target Database** according to the connection settings of your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Fill in the **Username** and **Password** fields of the **Target Database** according to the connection settings of your cluster.
```

5. Create the bucket policy and role for cross-account access according to [Learn how to create a Policy and Role for Cross-Account access](#learn-how-to-create-a-policy-and-role-for-cross-account-access).
6. Click **Import** to create the task.

> 7. If your tasks failed, you can refer to [Learn how to clean up incomplete data](#learn-how-to-clean-up-incomplete-data).

Reviewer: This is not an ordinary step.
```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
> If your task fails, refer to [Learn how to clean up incomplete data](#learn-how-to-clean-up-incomplete-data).
```

## Learn how to create an Amazon S3 Bucket and prepare source data files

To prepare data, you can select one from the following two options:

- [Option 1: Prepare source data files using Dumpling](#option-1-prepare-source-data-files-using-dumpling)

    You need to launch [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview) on your EC2, and export the data to Amazon S3. The data you export is the current latest data of your source database. This might affect the online service. Dumpling will lock the table when you export data.

- [Option 2: Prepare source data files using Amazon Aurora snapshots](#option-2-prepare-source-data-files-using-amazon-aurora-snapshots)

>     This does affect your online service. It might take a while when you export data, because the export task on Amazon Aurora first restores and scales the database before exporting data to Amazon S3. For more details, see [Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This affects your online service. It might take a while when you export data, because the export task on Amazon Aurora first restores and scales the database before exporting data to Amazon S3. For more details, see [Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html).
```

```

The result is as follows:

```output
Empty set (0.04 sec)
```

If TiDB does not support your character set or collation, consider converting them to supported types. For more details, see [Character Set and Collation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/character-set-and-collation).

### Option 1: Prepare source data files using Dumpling

You need to prepare an EC2 to run the following data export task. It's better to run on the same network with Aurora and S3 to avoid extra fees.

1. Download Dumpling on EC2.

    Download the TiDB Toolkit:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    mkdir tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64 && \
    wget -qO- https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz|tar -xzv -C tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64 --strip-components 1
    ```

> 2. Grant the write privilege for writing S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Grant the write privilege to Dumpling for writing S3.
```

>     You can grant the write privilege using the access key and security key of your AWS account in the environment. Create a specific key pair for preparing data, and revoke the access key immediately after you finish the preparation.
> 
>     {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
> 
>     ```bash
>     export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AccessKeyID
>     export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=SecretKey
>     ```
> 
>     If you have assigned the IAM role to the EC2, you can skip configuring AK/SK, and run Dumpling on this EC2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > If you have assigned the IAM role to the EC2, you can skip configuring the access key and security key, and directly run Dumpling on this EC2.
    
    You can grant the write privilege using the access key and security key of your AWS account in the environment. Create a specific key pair for preparing data, and revoke the access key immediately after you finish the preparation.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AccessKeyID
    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=SecretKey
    ```
```

3. Back up the source database to S3.

    Use Dumpling to export the data from Amazon Aurora. Based on your environment, replace the content in angle brackets (>), and then execute the following commands. If you want to use filter rules when exporting the data, refer to [Table Filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/table-filter#cli).

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    export_username="<Aurora username>"
    export_password="<Aurora password>"
    export_endpoint="<the endpoint for Amazon Aurora MySQL>"
    # You will use the s3 url when you create importing task
    backup_dir="s3://<bucket name>/<backup dir>"
    s3_bucket_region="<bueckt_region>"

    ./tidb-toolkit-latest-linux-amd64/bin/dumpling \
    -u "$export_username" \
    -p "$export_password" \
    -P 3306 \
    -h "$export_endpoint" \
    --filetype sql \
    --threads 8 \
    -o "$backup_dir" \
    --consistency="none" \
    --s3.region="$s3_bucket_region" \
    -r 200000 \
    -F 256MiB
    ```

> 4. Choose **Data Format** to **TiDB Dumpling** on the data import task pannel of TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: pannel -> panel
```suggestion
4. On the data import task panel of TiDB Cloud, choose **TiDB Dumpling** as the **Data Format**.
```

### Option 2: Prepare source data files using Amazon Aurora snapshots

#### Back up the schema of the database and restore on TiDB Cloud

To migrate data from Aurora, you need to back up the schema of the database.

1. Install the MySQL client.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
    yum install mysql -y
    ```

2. Back up the schema of the database.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
    export_username="<Aurora username>"
    export_endpoint="<Aurora endpoint>"
    export_database="<Database to export>"

    mysqldump -h ${export_endpoint} -u ${export_username} -p --ssl-mode=DISABLED -d${export_database} >db.sql
    ```

3. Import the schema of the database into TiDB Cloud. 

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```bash
    dest_database="<TiDB Cloud connect endpoint>"
    dest_username="<TiDB Cloud username>"
    dest_database="<Database to restore>"

    mysql -u ${dest_username} -h ${dest_database} -P 4000 -p -D${dest_database}<db.sql
    ```

> 4. Choose **Data Format** to **Aurora Backup Snapshot** on the data import task pannel of TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. On the data import task panel of TiDB Cloud, choose **Aurora Backup Snapshot** as the **Data Format**.
```

 9. Modify the encryption key type of server-side encryption to Amazon S3 Key.

     Choose the backup directory, and click **Actions**. In the pop-up list, click to edit server-side encryption.

     Choose **Amazon S3 key (SSE-S3)**. It might take a while, depending on your database type and size.

## Learn how to create a Policy and Role for Cross-Account access

For security concerns, you need to create a policy and role for cross-account access. You can use either of the following two options to apply the bucket policy for cross-account access:

- [Option 1: Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using AWS console](#option-1-apply-the-bucket-policy-for-cross-account-access-using-aws-console)
- [Option 2: Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using awscli](#option-2-apply-the-bucket-policy-for-cross-account-access-using-awscli)

### Option 1: Apply the bucket policy for cross-account access using AWS console

1. Sign in to the AWS console and go to **S3 Manage Console**.
2. Choose the bucket that stores the data to import.
3. On the top panel, select **Permissions**.
4. Click **Edit** to edit **Bucket policy**.

> 5. Paste the policy data from the TiDB Cloud **Import Task Panel**, and apply the changes. In this permission policy, **GetObject** and **ListBucket** permissions are required. If there are bucket policies existed, you can append the policies in **Statement** to your bucket policies list.

Reviewer: Incorrect grammar.
```suggestion
5. Paste the policy data from the TiDB Cloud **Import Task Panel**, and apply the changes. In this permission policy, **GetObject** and **ListBucket** permissions are required. If bucket policies exist, append the policies in **Statement** to your bucket policies list.
```
